All right guys welcome back.
So last year we covered why this is set up this way why we have assumptions and data why we have Year
One use of funds and all these different individual tabs and then we also covered what are pivot tables.
Why do we put all of our assumptions in one sheet.
And then why in the world did we put some of these things here and why did we think these assumptions
were so important for what we were doing.
Also what was that mysterious Miami-Dade test this thing.
Well that was our trial test to see how popular our offering would be to students.
OK so we left off direct cost assumptions.
Now direct cost assumptions.
Remember again anybody could refute that.
They could say our credit card cost is too low they could say the costs require schools to low whatever.
That's why we set it up so that they can change it direct cost assumptions are pretty helpful though
they don't get added up as a separate line item but later on will use these to show how profitable each
individual action might be.
So we could say if a salesman costs this much per salary to get a school and all of the costs associated
that we're also this we can then compare all of the costs for acquiring a school next to the revenue
from that school then promoting it to their students and then comparing those two is a great way of
showing value.
Look we put in $10000 and 3 months of time or month of time or whatever and we get $200000 or something
like that.
So really easy to show that off and it's generally something that people like seeing that on here we
put general administrative when you guys start your models do not forget about this stuff.
See it all the time.
People just forget to put the simplest things like they just don't.
You buy pencils pencils cost money it's going to come out of a business account you're not going to
buy it with your own money.
Anything like that.
It's OK to put things in this massive thing like office supplies office supplies per employee 50 bucks
per month.
OK.
I think that's completely reasonable.
We don't really need to label out.
Well they got a red stapler and the stapler as 1999 bill.
You have a coupon at $600.
It doesn't really matter.
We just pick something someone might argue with that doesn't make a huge kind of implication on the
rest of the model.
There are other things we put our utilities and rent.
We kind of assumed that our rent would be a certain price.
I think we are based out of Chicago at this point but I think we're moving to Boston in a while.
I was forgetting.
But the way we got this rent number was we just figured a certain amount of Squarespace per employee
and then we just kind of looked at commercial space and what was available I think actually you're planning
on using residential space which is technically illegal but it's actually a lot cheaper when you get
started.
A lot of companies do it.
So we just kind of guessed off that.
Again it's not a huge one.
You'll notice though if you if you think that 2000 for rent makes sense for the initial group of people
that will explain down here then as it grows and as we add more employees in the model you'll see that
our rent should go up.
But this is really just the base line we really probably should have put an explanation next to it.
OK over here we could travel sales employees $500 is pretty much a roundtrip per month.
This might be low.
I'm not really sure.
It kind of just depends.
I mean again if you want to get this number consider where you are and go get three prices for a roundtrip
to each coast over the U.S. So each coast and then one in the Midwest of your international then just
guess where most of your customers are and you know try to average it out and then just try to figure
out well you know if we said before it takes 14 hours to make a sale it takes three months to go over
that 14 hours.
OK.
Well how many times are they going be meeting and then you can kind of go backwards and say well they're
probably going to like 1.5 sales trips per month or whatever it is I would probably would have upped
this in reality than web hosting.
Yeah I mean guys don't forget that web hosting this is one that I think we showed a little bit of our
immaturity.
I don't know who.
I don't know.
2011.
Web Hosting is an enormous amount of money.
You can spin up something at Rackspace for $400.
That will hold almost millions of users.
It really just depends if you're like uploading images or pulling documents or things that are really
download upload heavy.
That's when it gets expensive Irland they're doing storage.
People are storing a lot of things that are large file sizes but otherwise man you can get away with
a lot.
All right so then down here we put the annual salaries and start months.
OK so this is just the assumption day 1.
How many people do we have.
And when are they starting.
So at this point we were justifying that this raise was going to be spent on our salaries because the
moment we did our first fundraising round and it was only over $200000.
And so the group was that point.
The point we really wanted to get into paying full salaries and not just like hourly contracts.
So that's why we justified this is going to be involved with this raise.
I'd still put this on any other fundraising document.
But this is why we specifically did it here.
As you can see here these are all the people we thought we would need at the very beginning.
We thought that you need operations.
A technical manager a CEO and a chief architect and well the rest of it would come in later if you are
curious why the CEO and the CEO gets paid so much less than the CTO.
Well the reasons one CEO's are more valuable harder to recruit.
I don't think we could find someone with the technical expertise to pull this off or anything less than
that.
And the other thing was my co-founder and I were the CEO and the CEO.
And because we were young at this point I was 22.
I could live off ramen.
I didn't really need a whole lot but it would be helpful to you know have enough money for things like
health insurance and the occasional flight.
So that's why we kind of put this here.
You know you see CEOs getting paid a lot more.
I see a lot of people in startups now asking for well over 100 depending on kind of where they're living.
We found that this was pretty acceptable and really just kind of a standard salary.
It wasn't like we recruited to see how to pay them a ton of money so they'd end up saving us a decent
amount of money.
And people found this completely reasonable.
Then as you go down here you can kind of see more to how we were kind of thinking about structuring
the company or how we kind of predicted this would work.
Remember we had no idea how big of a software application was going to be at the very end of it.
We didn't know how big of a deal it was get all of the scholarships into our application.
Literally no I mean didn't know a whole lot.
I mean we had mapped out quite well the sales side and the revenue side and getting the schools and
the penetration rate and stuff like that.
I mean on the flipside we really didn't know a whole lot about like what do you do after you have a
school.
So this is our best guess or best guess was think we probably figured that we would need programmers
and we said well we're gonna need like a junior Dev and a senior dev.
That's kind of what we figured.
Two guys plus a CTO to make large architectural decisions is pretty good.
That's not exactly the lean.
You could definitely do without the junior and just have a CTO and someone else who is also a senior
you know nowadays the CTO is the one who makes it.
But in this scenario I think we are because we were thinking that the data structure and the software
structure was just so complex it was really not a simple application that we would need someone and
more of this larger architectural position also just kind of give us advices to hey don't do that you're
going to break everything.
So that was our best guess.
Why do we call them architects.
Well because we are pitching investors and investors are not terribly tech savvy so architects sounds
a whole lot better than Khoder or code wrangler or code monkey or as goofy things.
You see unlike people's design studios there is lost sales.
OK.
So we've put account managers and this is kind of the assumption was that we are sales and sales get
add on all of these universities but every year we have to read up and redo it and get a new promotion.
We also have to cancel constant answer their questions and make sure that the students also don't go
to the universities and ask and say they're having problems or asked more questions really we just found
that there is a baseline level of maintenance.
So we figured it really make a lot of sense.
The salespeople do the ongoing maintenance.
We figured out today you could have much better economies of scale by training someone specifically
to manage them so an account manager 40 K for an account manager.
I think that's kind of low now.
But then again inflation is what doesn't.
Well it wasn't 12 that we had down here is university sales directors we had these people coming on
pretty soon realizing the idea here was we wanted to get someone who was more like a ring leader for
each sales team someone who really kind of owned a territory.
Right so a lot of sales companies you see are based on home territories.
So one in the Midwest someone on the west coast east coast northeast southwest whatever.
So we kind of thought that maybe that's the way this model would work out.
I don't know.
It might have been overkill it might be that you don't need to do that again and we would have figured
that out very quickly and would have deleted this and then just kind of removed it.
But this is pretty much what we were guessing we're guessing and add them on very quickly.
And if for some reason we change our mind or someone who is looking at this did not agree that could
change it right here and say No I expect them to come later.
Other than that we other person now.
Is that really Hayesville personnel.
So yeah.
Right.
So we had data entry that was really all it was.
Remember we have all these scholarships out there and really get their applications in our systems people
can be matched with them.
And that's just a lot of data entry.
We put 15000 because I mean we are outsource it.
So 15000 for an outsourced data entry person if they're trained and everything is actually quite generous
and we kind of assume that they would come on in the sixth month.
I'm not really sure who's going to do that up until that point this might be.
This one is and you can see we're having some really tight and variable interesting so you could set
that I think maybe we couldn't agree on that one point or something and then the data entry temp was
kind of like because the thing is with a lot of the data entry it's not a slow burn.
It's not like you only have two hundred a day to put in.
It's more like today of 20 tomorrow or 50 the next day at 3000.
So we needed to have some kind of a fluid workplace arrangement.
And over here you can see the data entry goal.
So we just kind of put our goal over here and we tested this out.
So we actually tried to enter these in ourselves.
It was mind numbingly boring.
Anyway we figured you could get in probably 20 per hour.
It seemed reasonable to promise some of these ones are really thorny and it took a long time and some
are just a breeze.
What we ended up doing was breaking the data entry process down so there's three distinct parts.
One was finding the scholarship and then one was taking information and putting it.
And then one was checking it over and making sure there wasn't a mistake because once it goes in the
system it's a lot harder to fix it then.
So that's how we kind of broke it down.
Finding them is easy because once you find a cache of scholarships that usually come in bundles of 30
so yeah I'd probably take an hour to find one of those.
Putting it in yeah equal to six an hour it's just really tedious.
You know we looked in a lot of like technology that could scan it and do it automatically.
Unfortunately there was nothing at the moment.
Then what we did over here was we kind of figured the whole process capacity.
OK so what this was was you know doing get 20 an hour.
You can put six and you can review ten.
Well then on average since this middle one is the bottleneck you can really only do six an hour.
So we just kind of listed out how it can take really six things and an hour and for paying someone $8
an hour.
Well what would it take to get up to here.
Right.
And again this is our goal we figured 25000 five thousand pretty good for our initial round of sales
because if I log in and there's twenty five thousand in the database chances are going to get enough
matches that it's worth while again someone might disagree with that.
They might say 100000.
I don't know if using the 100000.
I think that we are best guess was there's something like 50.
No one really knows because scholarships are really really disconnected.
There's just ones everywhere.
There are some scholarships that literally are only advertised in newspaper like this whenever there's
classifieds.
Yeah we saw a lot of those ideas and that's what we ended up finding out was that if you use those numbers
then it's going to take 7900 17 hours which will cost us 63.
So that's what the temp was we just figured well at first we're going to spend about $63000 to get all
of them in the system and then move on and then on an ongoing basis have these two after about six months
we figured does it take us about six months because of that we had the provider acquisition table here
and this was just well you know so we set our goals right for getting all of the scholarships in those
data entry and then we set all of our goals for what our penetration rate was and how schools are going
to get and how many sales a sales person would have to bring in.
On average per year and low cost and to be so here we put our goals for providing we put provider acquisition
I believe provider acquisition acquisition is spelled wrong.
Was account managers managing the scholarships side and not the school side.
So scholarships themselves institutions usually it's like two people.
They change applications.
And so a lot of times they have questions and they need someone to interface with.
So I think we are guessing that we are going to get 3000 scholarship providers on.
We say we want to 25000 scholarships while providers 3000.
I mean there's a lot of ones that give away hundreds of scholarships and those ones only get one or
two.
So I think that was just kind of a guess.
Again nobody really knew enough to say you can't get 25000 off a 3000 or it's impossible to get 3000
or there aren't 3000.
These are pretty much best guesses.
We use some basic data that we had found on or someone reast did research on scholarships.
That's what we kind of got a top line how many scholarship providers there were.
And then we kind of use our own efforts to figure out how long it took us to reach out to all of them
and then kind of backtracked to figure out well in 18 months assuming this is how many employees we
have maybe we get 3000.
That was our best guess.
And then right here again we figured 50 people per person would make sense.
And then total providers I guess this would be over a certain time period per account manager.
I don't actually remember all of the details on this.
This is like the 15th probably iteration of this model so it kept changing and kept change and kept
changing.
And then down here we put a cost of acquisition calculations basically it was like Do you have an account
manager and they get paid $52000 a year and they can manage 400 people or whatever it is roughly is
roughly spending up $50 per provider right.
So that was an acquisition because we're essentially a two sided marketplace.
We had to get schools and students but also on the flipside of scholarships so either is management
and acquisition on both sides then now here we set up something for employee bonuses benefits and taxes
and this we just use this kind of a hedge like we really don't want to sit there and figure out what
benefits we are going to get and how much it cost and what pricing we could get.
Zoll before like then payroll gusto.
So we just kind of did a.
Agassiz said oh 20 percent and we pulled that from some labor statistics we've found that says benefits
on average were worth like 15 percent.
So we wanted to up it to 20 percent.
Then we had payroll taxes.
This had to do I think with the state we were operating in.
And you know like San Francisco has a payroll tax some states have payroll tax.
I think that's kind of what it was or or it was the withholdings you have to do in the U.S. where you
have to withhold a certain amount of their income to pay the taxes for them.
I don't know it's kind of ridiculous.
And then recruitment refigured Well they're going to hire contractor recruiters or there's just going
to be costs associated with putting up jobs.
The guys that are put up job postings probably know they are expense.
So yeah.
Twenty five hundred per one that's not really that crazy when a job costs $400 to post things we put
legal and accounting fees kind of separated those out because legal and accounting are just I don't
know it's just a set of expenses you might expect and then we just kind of gave ourselves some room
we figured out another three grand per month per for legal accounting.
We used part time accounting that's pretty easy bookkeeping VERGA.
Seen like bench and it's a good bench dot com or something.
They're just on demand bookkeeping really easy miscellaneous accounting.
Not sure why we had that so large but I think it's because we assumed we had set up a law at the very
beginning and then every year for every quarter for taxes would be an X amount of work.
Then the last thing is tax and miscellaneous.
Again set this up so that other people can mess with that as much as they want.
And we put income tax so the percentage of EBIT which is earnings before interest and taxes.
We figured it would be like 30 percent which I don't think is a 100 percent necessary when you do these
models because a lot of people just assume you're not going to have retained earnings you're going invest
that back in the company.
Now obviously this depends on the country.
Every country has different tax laws.
The United States has terrible tax laws.
The way we do it is oh that's nice.
You made some money if you put it in your bank account.
You don't spend it.
We're going to tax it.
But if you spend it then we don't tax anything.
I just don't know it just doesn't really make any sense.
We should just tax it on income instead.
But regardless that's how our corporate income tax works so that's kind of what we are guessing.
I think what we did is we looked at our progressive model it's like we have a progressive tax rate so
we looked at it and said Oh our corporate rate is going to be 30 percent based on our estimations.
And that's kind of what he came up with.
And again someone might look at this and go ooh.
I know that startups can get away with paying less in taxes they probably lower that down.
And then this is kind of where we'll make a calculation how much we pay in tax.
It's going to be based off of this.
So if we were raising 1.5 million so that sat in our account and we didn't spend it then that's kind
of the tax we would get hit with so we didn't a paying $450000.
And yes that's off of investment.
OK so that pretty much sums up this assumptions.
S. I think the only thing left over here I think we try to these are kind of our startup costs so our
startup costs would be $60 $3000 in data entry.
See that there.
Then we figured well OK we got to build out this first V-1 because prior to this we are really just
working on a hacked together prototype.
So well we're going to pay X amount in contract front end development and then marketing materials we
figured.
I don't know.
This is probably where we take to get the first blast out to get leads in for our salespeople and in
postage fees I don't even know why we spent $20000 in postage fees it's crazy.
But the reason why this is front end and not back end was because the assumption was we want Sony's
a specialist in front end and x to design it make it Pertti.
And then this is why we would hire architects people who could do the back end because that was the
stuff that consing needs maintenance and changing and front end was just not it doesn't need as much
work or maintenance.
Okay so those are pretty much our startup costs and that pretty much sums up everything on this sheet.
We use these colors because why not just makes it a lot easier to look at it so it makes it look quite
a bit more polished.
Okay next lecture we're going to move on and start looking at some of these sheets we created like use
of funds monthly income statements and kind of break down what we did there and why we did it.
OK I'll see you then.